[ Noise & Music ]
>> Lilou: Hello, my
juicy co-creators.
Lilou here.
I'm in England in London, in
the United Kingdom with Derek.
Hello Derek!
>> Derek Mills: Hi Lilou.
Great to have you here.
>> Lilou: Last time we saw
each other was in Windsor
and now we're in London.
>> Derek Mills: Yes, indeed.
Yeah. Another parts of the
world, you know, same energy.
>> Lilou: And I love
so much your energy.
I wanted to bring
another show about you
or at least your teachings
and what you have to share
on the Gaiam TV because
I'm doing this show called
"Lilou on the Road".
So as I'm traveling, I'm having
all those amazing conversation
and I'm especially inspired by
who you are for many reasons.
For those of you that
have not seen this video,
there's really-- we go into
details about your own story.
But basically, you wrote
"The 10-Second Philosophy",
which is your story after
a big kind of awakening.
And you live in the city here
in London and you're surrounded
by business people
and you coach people
and there is a big
money conversation
to have here I think.
'Cause there is some
misconceptions and so,
this is a very useful topic
for all of you that are kind
of not understanding the--
you know, I'm spiritual.
I'm doing everything right
and yet there's this thing
about money that is not working.
And a lot of people are
in this situation, no?
>> Derek Mills: Absolutely.
One of the challenges
that I have faced myself
of those is around money.
That was the first three
quarters of my adult life.
And it was then when I was
have to change my perception
around money and who I am and
the space held for other people.
The thing around money began to
shift for me and it shifted as,
you know, an enormous way.
But that's started on the inside
and that's I think why it's
worth taking the journey
down that path today.
>> Lilou: OK.
Now, you have to get in
there because I'm ready.
We're all ready to hear this.
Can you summarize what
happen and what were--
were you were at money
and how you see money now?
>> DM: You know part of
my stories that's at least
about eight or nine years
ago, I was totally broke.
I was not working, having
worked for d18 years on--
>> Lilou: How old are you?
>> DM: I'm 48 now.
And so for the first--
well, as an adult,
so I was 38 years
old, 38 in a bit.
I was really just working
on a commission only
or self-employed only
running my own business.
And at age 38, I'm broke.
And I'm depressed.
Not depressed 'cause I'm broke.
I just-- I'm happened
to be depressed.
But never diagnosed and
refused to go to the doctors.
But I just-- I knew where I was.
What happened for me at that
point was I got to an evening
in my life where I recognize
that I wasn't going to go
on any further as the old--
what I call the non-self.
We talk about the non-self
and the philosophy.
And the non-self is how
the world constructs makes
us behave.
And this non-self isn't
who we really are.
The true self is the essence
of what we came here as
and who we really are.
So the non-self isn't able
to access our true gifts
and our true abilities, and how
genius and through the conduits
through everything
else that's around us.
When we reconnect with our
true self, the truth is
that we can actually bring
that gift and that genius
to the benefit of the world
for our [inaudible] journey.
We can also use it
in our businesses.
'Cause one of things that
struck me is I get meeting
around the world now and I
still do meet some wonderfully
amazingly spiritual,
enlightened, gorgeous people
who then after spending some
time without telling me, well,
financially, they're
not doing very well.
And I'll-- well,
how would that be
because these are amazing
enlightened people.
And I said, "Well,
business is tough
and this isn't going very well."
And it began to challenge me
so I have to go back inside
to my own genius, to my own gift
and say, so what does that mean?
What I've began to cover the
people did have essentially
when they were enlightened
and awareness being part
of the oneness and being
part of everything else.
But if you're part
of the oneness,
some of the questions might be,
isn't the oneness
in all of your life?
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> DM: If you're part
of the oneness, it's--
isn't it part of intelligence
energy, part of God,
part of the souls
whatever people believe,
light energy, everything
being one.
Why would that stop
nine to five?
Why would that suddenly
stopping your business?
Why would you be a wonderful,
amazing, creative genius
in one part of your life?
In fact, in all of your
life apart from that nine
to five, what was missing?
And once you got something
that was missing 'cause you
weren't allowing yourself
to bring your true
oneness into that space
where you're essentially
blocking yourself.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> DM: And also, I began to
explore what are the kind
of things that I did
when I literally woke
up those few short years ago.
And why did I bring in
to my business and bring
in to my life, not just be a
coach, and a mentor, and a guide
or a counselor for the
people, but actually to be OK
around making money out of that.
Because it's your
thoughts about that I had.
I've been speaking very recently
to a mind, body, spirit event
and there're some beautiful
people, some coaches
and mentors in the room.
And having had a couple of
conversations beforehand,
I knew I wanted [inaudible]
business wise and financially
and not great, not
doing that great.
But they were great people
and they had great energy,
and great spirit
but not doing great.
And one young lady
in particular,
I recognized had a challenge
around money with she wants
to change the world, tell
everyone to be the light
and energy, and love and caring
and trust me she is
all of those things.
But she didn't really appreciate
that there was a part of her
that was-- that she
was blocking.
It was around money.
It was around-- she felt she
had to give, give, give, give,
give love and light and caring
and sharing, but didn't want
to receive for herself, and
was refusing to receiving it.
When we make judgments about
what we're allowed to receive,
that causes challenges
and causes blocks.
So I said-- so I wasn't
particularly [inaudible]
talking, I just said,
you know, 2000 years ago,
regardless of your faith is--
for example, 2000 years ago,
you know, Jesus walks
around on the earth.
Some people, son of God,
to other people,
no, a great prophet.
By the way, most people
accept that walked
around a couple thousand
years go on the planet.
And I was told when I was
at school that Jesus was--
his trade was he was a
carpenter until he was 30.
I was also told that
Mary, his mother,
his Mary's earthly husband,
Joseph, was also a carpenter.
And I got to thinking that it
didn't actually say anywhere
in the Bible that they were--
they were [inaudible]
the charity.
What actually said was-- said
that they were carpenters
and I began to understand
that they were professional
carpenters, right?
They did that for a living.
Did they actually make the
chairs and tables and cupboards
and wonderful furniture
and did they stand it all
and give it all away for
nothing, being absolute martyrs
in their service or did they
say, actually it's OK for us
to create and spend our time
doing this and to use our gifts
for the benefit of others.
It's actually OK to
receive something back.
And I believe, it doesn't
say anywhere in the Bible,
doesn't mention in the
Bible, I kind of believe
that they are professional
carpenters,
which means they allowed
themselves to receive money
for that which they
gave to the world.
They may have traded, I don't
know, a chair for a goat.
I don't know, but they allowed
that transaction to happen.
And clearly, no way does it say
that they were uncomfortable
with that.
So my belief is around actually
good enough for Jesus to receive
for that which he gave.
Good enough for you,
good enough for me,
good enough for all of us.
It's really about
saying I accept this,
that I can give value in to the
world and I can get value back.
The other thing that came to me
was around, if we're all part
of the oneness and we
are enlightened beings
in our relationships and in
our health and with our friends
and the family and
we want to help
and change the world
helping the people,
what part of that oneness would
certainly stop when you got
to the office at
nine in the morning?
I mean, why would that be?
Why would it stop
between nine to five, so,
I began to meet more people who
said, "Well, this provide you
for living Derek and it's just
not going very well at all."
And I say, "Well, OK,
so how is that working?
Well, these are my goals.
And you know, part
of what I talk
about is the goals that work.
If they work, then the world
will be a different place
right now.
Goals really cause a disconnect
between who we really are,
our true self and the oneness.
So, when I talk about stop
setting goals, and the--
what it really say's is,
stop living your life
outside of yourself.
Stop putting your happiness
and your contentment
into the future, and instead
bring that into your now
about being present
and living in the now.
And here's why, because
we only have now.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> DM: 'Cause when we attach
us ourselves to goals,
we really ask-- what we attach
to the goals is actually
contentment and happiness.
You've been all around
the world, yup.
You're talking to people
of diverse, beliefs,
and backgrounds, cultures,
colors, and creeds.
And, have you ever met
the person that said,
"I've set the goal
to be unhappy."
>> Lilou: No.
>> DM: No.
Didn't think so,
and this is you.
And they've been everywhere.
Well, neither have I
and I've traveled less
but neither have I.
So, what I accept therefore when
people set goals, they set goals
to be happy or happier
or more content.
So, that being said--
>> Lilou: Or richer.
>> DM: Or richer,
yeah, all those things.
And that richness gives them
happiness, often of contentment,
or worthiness or self-esteem,
whatever, feelings of one end
or the other happiness.
But that's the challenge because
the problem with the goal,
doesn't matter if it's next
week, next month, next year,
or three years, five years,
10 years, it's future based.
As human beings, what we tend
to do is attach our happiness
or the contentment
to the achievements
of that future goal, and that's
where the happiness stays
which means you're not present.
The very act of setting
the goal, disconnects you
from who you are
now from your truth,
from your true self today.
So, you're on this
very, very long journey
and you can skip seeing your
happiness into the future.
But that's an illusion because
happiness is a now experience.
Happiness is not a thing--
well, you can't be
happy in the future.
We can only be happy now
because this is what we have.
So, when I begun to share
people about first begin to look
at the goals that
you're setting,
is it about setting
goals that bring you away
from your own oneness bring
you away from your true self.
Is that a wise thing to do?
And the question I mean,
sometimes tongue-in-cheek.
But I sometimes ask, well how
is it working out for you?
You know, how many years
you've been setting goals for?
Well, 10 or 30, you know.
So, after 10, 20,
30 years, well,
how is that working out for you?
How is it working out
for your community?
For your business?
For the world?
We've all been doing this
for a hundred or more years.
But how is that working out?
Then we begin to be really
honest with ourselves and say,
maybe that our true self
doesn't get into the game.
Because setting our future
goals with this illusion
about happiness in the
future pulls us out,
cause that disconnect
and we cannot be present.
Now, if you don't bring your
best game into your business,
if you're not present in your
business, if your present
in word but not in deed,
in energy, in spirit,
'cause the best of you is
out there in some future,
how are you going to
help your clients?
How are you going to
change the world really?
So, people begun to
recognize the struggle
with bringing their A game,
their true self into
their business.
And so what we had to then do
was to discover there are ways
of bringing your true self
into the business and that's
by stop setting goals
'cause you people think
if you have a business,
you must set goals.
Well, to have a business,
it means about what you
decide to give as a service.
What's the passion
[inaudible] inside of you
and what are you going
to give as a service.
That brings us back to
we can keep ourselves--
what can we do to
keep ourselves true
in our self center
today, balance today?
And if we can find that place
and travel with that place
and energy inside of us and
bring it into the nine to five,
we can change the whole of
our responses in the world.
So, that was the first thing.
What was the second thing,
I'm not sure, I'm not sure.
>> Lilou: Second.
>> DM: Second thing now.
So the other thing that
came to me was that,
you know when you
got this-- so I was--
I've been busy now building
business for 27 years.
And the problem with being busy
for those 27 years is 18 years
that were awful that
was really worse
and I was struggling
in business.
And-- man, this is
going to get my--
so, as I'm struggling
in business,
what's actually happening
is that I'm trying
to do the very best I can.
I'm giving everything I
can to customers, clients,
potential customers,
potential clients.
And as I do that,
they're winning.
They're getting benefits
but I'm losing.
Over the time, I began to share
and to experience myself was I
had to do what I call the A, B,
C, and C. Now, the A, B, C, and
C is just a really simple way
of saying, how'd you bring
your oneness into your business
and whether it really
accelerates you potential
to create wealth, to have more
money being your life 'cause you
can sit there attracting
but what are you going to do
to practically in your business
in the next meeting that you're
in to make sure that
more money comes to you
and that's what I call the A,
B, C, and C. And the A, B, C,
and C is actually really
straightforward because it's
about bringing your
authentic self
into that business
every single day.
So, going back for one
moment for the goals,
if we detach ourselves
and put part of our self
into the future, it's difficult
to be our authentic self
in the present with
people that we sit
down we're hoping to serve.
So, it's not being really
authentic in that place.
I think that's the one that
people have first to recognize
that they must be fully present
with those they wish to serve.
The second part was around--
or the B is around the balance.
Because what was
instinct for me was that--
especially I'm coaching people
who are in business as coaches
and teachers and speakers.
And I would just say,
wow, this is interesting
because I think I love what you
do and I would say, you know,
and I love what you do and
you should be making a fortune
because you're giving a fortune
to the world through
what you do.
So what's happening?
And I remembered
where I came from.
Because the B in the A, B,
C, and C is not balance.
See at one end, if we are
martyrs, if we give everything
and give and give and give
and give in service and time
and energy to people,
eventually, we dissipate
that which we have, the gifts
that we have become
reduced and reduced.
And we can really help the
world, but it's about balance.
The other end of that
scale of balance is greed.
And if you're greedy, and
you think about just you,
what you can get, the money you
can make, then awfully that--
you may seem to win in the
short term, but we all know
that generates into you losing
the long term spiritually
or otherwise.
But if you're greedy, you're
thinking about yourself
and what you can get
and what you can charge
and how much money you can
make, but you know what?
When you're greedy, the world
suffers, those around you
and the world, they suffer.
But if we're martyrs, we suffer.
So, here's where we have to be.
We have to be here
in the middle.
It's OK to be a carpenter
and the son of God
or a great prophet or a
wise person or a spiritual
or a teacher, coach, mentor,
and to not be a martyr
to the world and
to not be greedy.
It's OK to have that
balance in the middle,
to accept that which is OK
for you to have accepted.
And when will that balance
placed, we [inaudible]
from being a martyr, and
people, potential customers
and clients pick up on
that energy and they go,
"I can't mess with this person.
I can't make them a martyr.
I was a martyr for 18 years
in my business driving all
over the UK for scraps of
business serving people
who woke up when they wanted."
I was suffering in pain and
working six days a week,
not until late into
the night as you know.
And I was the martyr, that's
not why I came here to be.
You know, I didn't come
here to be a martyr
to dissipate my energy.
It's fair for me to give
my service and my love
and my light to others.
But actually, it's OK for
me to have reward for myself
so that for me was OK.
I'm not a martyr
and I'm not greedy.
But then we have to look at
what's called the C in the A, B,
C and C. The C of this us that,
it's really interesting how
when we're in business,
that if you hear about,
you talk about energy and people
have heard you into before.
I love the fact that you meet
people who are most energetic
and enlightened and fun people.
Oftentimes when we're
in business
and we haven't got the rapport
with those with whom we wish
to serve, our high energy-- if
we're bouncing off the ceilings,
that high energy can put off
our opportunity to serve.
People just go, yeah.
Thank you, but not for me,
well, thank you very much.
So, we have to recognize
where they are.
It's not about us.
It's about them.
And it's also about saying if
our energy isn't high enough,
where enthusiasm isn't high
enough, we can also not--
we have some absolute
gems of wisdom
and really have the
ability to serve people,
have genius stuff inside of us.
But if our energy
isn't high enough,
or our [inaudible]
we also do not get the
ability or the right to serve.
So, when we look at the bouncing
off the walls and their energy,
we have to come back to the
center 'cause at the center
of all of us, you're
looking at balance
or looking at our energy.
We have to be balanced
and centered because back
to being the core, back to
being the true self 'cause
at the core, there's oneness.
At the core, there is the
oneness 'cause we're all part
of the oneness.
But also at the core
is our own oneness.
It's the part of the universe.
The part of the universe was
actually that came through me,
that came through you, that
come through each of us.
It's the light energy
that later you said,
the part of the universe is you.
But here's your personality
on it.
It's called your life.
A part of the universe is me.
It is my personality on it.
It's called my life.
So, it's being at our core
that helps us to be authentic,
balanced and centered.
And then that's when the
magic happens 'cause me of--
>> Lilou: Just finding
that space.
It's all about finding that
space and then the rest
of the stuff, no goals, nothing.
>> DM: It's about finding
that space because remember,
I'm talking about there,
how do we be a wonderful
spiritual enlightened selves
and do OK be prosperous.
>> Lilou: Abundant.
>> DM: Abundant in the world.
Great work, and how we-- part
of what we do here is we say
to ourselves, it's OK.
So, let's be authentic,
balanced, centered,
and the magic that happens is we
get the connection with people
in a way that they
just go, you know what,
I've seen other people in this
business, or coach or teachers
or advisors, whatever,
or consultants,
but they suddenly start saying,
this is the person
'cause everyone of us
as you know is just looking
for in our lives somewhere
to plug back into, somewhere
that we recognize or resonate
where we feel that
this is right.
And for most people in the
world who not may be enlightened
or as spiritual as they might
be, they're still in that place
on the inside, that
oneness is still there.
It hasn't disappeared.
So, we-- it allows us to save
those people, I'm authentic,
balanced, and centered.
And through that, they find
their connection with us.
So, in real business terms,
if we want to accelerate
our business results
and get abundance in our life,
we have to become
abundantly authentic,
abundantly balanced,
abundantly centered.
And then the connection with
others will blow you away
when you do the A, B, C, and
C 'cause people that begin say
to you, I will do
business with you.
You're the person
I want in my life.
You're the person, your
chances are higher.
You live further away than
people who I've talked
to you, but you're the one.
'Cause what they've
recognized is the authentic,
balanced, centered self.
It's an unspoken language,
but it's there nonetheless,
and then having got to be
enlightened to recognize that.
They cannot be enlightened
but still know that truth.
In my business, from the
moment I woke up and began
to be authentic,
balanced, centered linked on
and connected, my business
results went through the roof,
and part of my story is
that I went from being broke
to being a millionaire
within three years doing the
same business in the same office
with the same "service
and products".
So, what happened is people
kept turning up in big numbers
and I'm referring other people
to me saying, those are the guy.
By the way, he's
the cleverest guy.
He's not the most academic guy.
He hasn't got the
most experience
in the business,
but he's the guy.
You got to go meet
with this guy.
I meet these people
and they would refer me
to other wealthy
people and others,
the kind of clients
were approaching me
that I would have dreamed of
having, wouldn't have, you know,
given a small finger for.
You know, or at least
a small bit
of the thing anyway years ago.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> DM: But I became prosperous
by holding that space for others
to allow them to see what
was there for them and for me
in that relationship and
this is what happened.
>> Lilou: So, it was not
the economy that was wrong.
It was not the office.
It was not the colleagues
or the clients,
the skills were there
already though.
It was just you that
were not showing up.
>> DM: Oh course,
yeah, because--
that's a great question
because the economy before
and after are the same products
and services about the same
of the office, the
same office, OK,
well it's not doing very well,
I share it with other people
through the people so I've
even shared the office
when I then did better,
the office was just mine.
So, but the thing-- the key
thing about this is that, see,
the prosperity is
already out there.
See, it's floating
around as a leaf right now
and prosperity comes through us
through our ability to open up
and allow other people
to open up
and connect-- to
connect with us.
>> Lilou: Skills or no skills?
>> DM: Well, what has--
>> Lilou: There's also people
looking for the business too.
>> DM: Yeah.
You have to know what you do--
doing because you can't just
stay I'm authentic, balanced,
center, connected, and I'm
going to be, I don't know,
the best paid brain surgeon or
wealth manager, whatever it is.
You have to know your stuff.
That's part of the-- you
know, the physical stuff
and the real stuff of the world.
But the reality of it is--
>> Lilou: You have
to love what you do.
>> DM: Of course, it
has to be your passion.
So, what can-- what quite
come through here is
after you discover and we'd be
ourselves, the biggest thing
around money is that
forget about the money.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> DM: It's not about the money.
It never has been
about the money.
It's around other
people are looking
for authentic people
to deal with.
And here's why you
get the business.
Here's why you expand
your business.
Here's why you create prosperity
for yourself and your finally
and those that you love, is
because other people are looking
for some way to plug in,
that being around the world--
I've spoken to other
counselors, teachers, advisors,
and one of the businesses
sales people here in--
>> Lilou: Healers.
>> DM: Healers, whatever,
and they go, "You know what,
I didn't find the
right place for me."
So, when we hold this space
for them, they come and we say,
this is a customized service
and that's OK, and they begin
to turn up in huge numbers.
And when they turn up,
they become customers
and clients 'cause they're
thinking I wasn't feeling
this before.
I wasn't getting this before.
What are they getting?
It's not about the fee
that you're charging.
It's not even about the product.
It's about the space
that you create for them.
So, when I sit down with-- I
tell you what, one of the things
that I've written
about in the book.
>> Lilou: So, no agenda really
when you're meeting a client,
I mean no preparation.
>> DM: None.
I mean, you have to-- you
have to have your intention--
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> DM: -- about why am
in this building for,
that's important to know.
You're not there to pick
up lint off the floor.
You know, it's-- it is about
saying, I know what I'm here
to do, but if I'm in business,
those are what they have to do,
but most businesses fail
or don't succeed is no--
they're not wealth created.
So, it is about saying to
ourselves to hold that space
and people will begin to turn.
It's about what can
you be for others?
So, it's almost detaching
from the outcome
of what might happen there.
>> Lilou: Help them.
>> DM: Yeah, I mentioned
that in my book
about I have an awful lot in my
client side advise, particularly
on the financial side that I
advise who are accountants,
former accountants, FDs
or financial directors
and retired financial
directors, people who you want
to think are very logical,
very left brained, very--
you know, very worldly,
and things that can weigh
such measure and [inaudible].
And that's the world they came
from and lived in for maybe 40,
50, or 60, or 70, or 80 years.
And they come to meet me,
and I ask the question,
"Why are you here?"
'Cause what's led you here?
>> Lilou: They don't know.
>> DM: They don't know 'cause
that service that I give,
you know, the products,
the laws, the tax laws,
the investment advisor,
if it's counseling
about personal development
or self-help
or revealing their
genius to themselves,
they can get that anywhere.
So, I kind of think
you were supposed
to know why you're here.
And what I tend to find is
that they [inaudible]
left-brained people.
I opened a space for them.
And they just find that
space, and they go, "Wow!
I'm 72 years old."
They're not telling me this,
but I just know that's
what they're feeling
but it's future conversations
in the first meeting
where they're saying,
this is different.
The other people we've met they
talk about the returns, the this
and the bottom line
and the whatever.
This guy is just saying,
actually we're talking
about that part of the end.
First, you want to explore
here is about you and beginning
to know you, not just your
values but your beliefs,
your identity and what you're
all about, and the space,
whether the space we hold is OK,
'cause it's OK for us not to be
in our lives together.
And so, and if that's
not the case,
I can [inaudible] somebody else.
And that's letting them know
right upfront that it's OK
if this doesn't work out
for us because, you know,
it may not be for now.
And they usually start
feeling something different
that they haven't felt before.
Here's where they were and
we are operating from here,
from the mind, from
the conscious sort
or they be from the ego.
We can often take in a way
off track after the true self.
Or maybe move away
from the minds
and into the unconscious
spiritual beings that we are
and accepting that even for in
front of an accountant who is
in 60 years of business, they
too have a spirit, have a soul,
have energy from the
source, a part of God,
part of [inaudible] even
if you have no idea
what those words mean,
they're still part
of the oneness.
So we--
>> Lilou: You've looked
through their soul
so you're read-- that's how we--
>> DM: Yeah, that's how we do
it, and the reason why we do it
because that's who we are.
See, this isn't you
and this isn't me.
It's what's inside of that.
This is the vessel that
carriers around our truth.
When we reveal our truth,
somebody else but I was saying,
OK, no matter how I
sound in this meeting,
I'm going to reveal my truth to
this person and hold the space
to help them to reveal
their truth to me.
And if we can meet
in that place,
we both feel settled
and honored.
We get to do business.
That's-- We happened
to do business.
That just like-- that
one's like a byproduct
but we found this
connection, which is why
when I have clients
working with me,
they often give the
same kind of feedback.
And these people who are
not into their mind, bodies,
spirit [inaudible] end
up saying things like,
I felt this real connection
or haven't felt this way
or I thought you're
really authentic
and we haven't felt this.
They begin to use the language
'cause it must be there.
It's not that knowledge,
that wisdom,
in a sagacity is already there
within them and they begin
to reveal that as you
hold the space for them.
So it's all about
you, it's about them.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> DM: Yeah.
>> Lilou: No wonder
that-- no wonder you're--
you've got such a vision
here in London, in the city
and with all the bankers and
the traders and the money here
that circulates in London.
No wonder you're being chosen
to do this work, I love it.
How shift-- it must shift
people totally and started--
then they shift other people.
I mean again, it's beautiful.
>> DM: Yeah, it is about
shifting others because,
you know, in the world today
it's not recognizing what we
really are and this is
obvious to you and for all
of you listeners and viewers.
But it's obvious what we
really are, but it's obvious
to the most of the world
what we really are,
that we are spirit and oneness.
So let's act as if
it's not obvious.
Let's be true and say,
"It's not obvious."
So if I'm here, in my language,
in my communication with others,
and let's say that
they are somewhere else
or maybe even here and
their understanding.
If I keep speaking
here, I'm not going
to engage those people
so here's a thing.
I'm going to go back to
if you don't mind, Jesus.
2000 years ago, Jesus
walked on the earth.
From my belief system,
son of God,
real acknowledged wisdom
part of the universe,
so, part of the creation.
Now, if you're the son of God,
I began to wonder,
he knew everything.
You really are part of-- even
at the beginning, you know.
You went brief afterwards
you were told how this--
it's all about this
and you know,
you come to the earth
knowing everything, you know,
every concept, every
idea, every thought,
every ability, every
bit of wisdom.
There's nothing that
you do not know,
every language, every content.
So, you can communicate at
the highest level beyond man.
But here's a question
that came to me.
If Jesus was God, why
did he speak in parables?
'Cause he was here, but
he spoke and he said,
"There was a sower
sowing some seeds."
He said, "There was a
man who had two sons,
one wants his fortune and he
went away and the prodigal son."
And he spoke in parables
in simple stories,
why did he do that,
being son of God,
he could have just
given us, you know,
we listen to wise people all
the time, you interview them.
But the idea is me actually,
you know, it reminds me of when
in the Bible, he gave a
sermon, a sermon on the mount
and he talked to multitude
of people barely stating the
scripture that, you know,
3000 were converted that day.
Not everyone so he
gave his truth.
He spoke his truth and
he made some sales.
He made some conversions.
Some people looking
for converted.
Not everyone.
So even when we do this,
we have to recognize
and everyone wouldn't actually
be aware of our message
but the most important
message that came across to me
and that thing that kept coming
through again and again is
that he spoken parables 'cause
he recognize that where he was
in his awareness of his
enlightenment, of everything
of the oneness, people he wanted
to help the most were
not in that place.
So he had to come down
and shift his language
and just speak in
simple parables.
What that mean for us as
teachers and leaders and coaches
and guides and counselors, it
means that it's not about us.
It isn't about what we know.
It's about knowing
our intention,
but it's about the other person.
So, I have to shift my language.
The only way for me to
move someone is to go
where they are so they can--
>> Lilou: To meet
them where they are.
>> DM: To meet them where
they are and to engage them
where they are and
then begin bit by bit
to have them be more
enlightened and more awake.
But here's what we don't do.
We don't communicate with them
in such a way where they go.
He is very wise,
but I don't get it.
There's no connection there.
They're not feeling
the authenticity.
They're not feeling the light
and the love and the energy
that you already carry.
So trust yourself.
As where there were coaches or
teachers or mentors or parents
or friends, it's about
trusting ourselves.
And when I counsel
people without our recall,
real problems, you know,
problems in their life,
with their relationship with
their family, their business,
you know, circum--
they're humans
and problems arise
when you're human.
When I counsel people and
mentor and coach people,
I now then take time to
listen to their journey
and how they got there
and the problems and often
if you know more than just one
[inaudible] and I often begin
to really just to feel where
they are, recognize the space
that they're in and what begins
to come through me was your lack
of trust in yourself has led
you here, the lack of trust
in yourself, because it appears
that you've trusted the company,
the employer, the industry,
the media, the newspapers,
other teacher and other leaders.
Here's what you have
not done to this point.
You have not trusted
yourself and part
of the universe is
in you as in them.
The wisdom of the
world, the guiding light,
the intelligent energy
that you came here as part
of the universe, part
of the universal
expression came through you.
This light was given to you so
you are the wisest of the wise.
You are a servant [inaudible]
but when you don't believe that,
it doesn't appear in your life.
It's about reconnecting
with that truth,
often saying accepting it, OK?
So when I say your lack of trust
in yourself has led you here,
what I mean is that problems
[inaudible] that they have seems
to be the biggest challenge that
we have is going on the inside
and trusting what's
already there for them.
So who knows you're the best.
This is great when we're
working with, you know,
anyone that we're
counseling in particular.
Because often, when
things go wrong,
we start not believing
in ourselves.
But the great thing about the
true self, if you believe just,
you know, a small amount,
the grain of a mustard seed,
just give a bit of-- have a
bit of belief in yourself.
Begin to trust yourself
just a small amount.
As if that your true
self wakes up and says,
"Oh, you trust me now."
Even if it's just, well,
do I turn left or right.
Well, I got real strong feeling
to go right so I'll go right
and your true self gets
simulated and that later on,
you begin to trust the true
self on, you have this person
as a client, but you don't
have them as a client.
You have this person
in your life
which you have to
have that person.
So as you begin to trust
yourself on first small
and then bigger things,
the relationship
with your oneness develops
'cause once we are part
of the oneness, there
is oneness within each
of us so we are oneness.
So when that true self
begins to recognize
that we are paying attention to
it and that we're trusting it,
it just think it
is really amazing.
It begins to trust us, so
it begins to lead us more
and to guide us more and to
share and reveal much more to us
that allows us to have
an incredible life
to appear geniuses and
gurus ourselves 'cause each
and everyone of us is a genius.
Each and every one of us is a
guru 'cause that seems that--
we know this to be true.
It's inside each
and everyone of us.
So when you don't appear
guru like in your own life,
it's about pausing and going
back inside and beginning
to trust yourself and follow
the messages and the guidance
that come from that place.
>> Lilou: Beautiful.
I am-- aren't we totally--
I get it, there is this--
this thing that's just
created by your words
and your beingness [phonetic].
It's really-- that's
exactly what you're teaching
but you're putting it right now
in place like we can feel it.
So thank you for-- 'cause
that's the main thing,
is that you're embodying it,
so it's like not just
you're talking it
but you're embodying
it so we're getting it
and that's how we get it.
I am very, very grateful
for this conversation.
>> DM: More of a
soliloquy, really wasn't it?
>> Lilou: The what?
>> DM: There's more
of a soliloquy.
>> Lilou: What is
that in English?
Oh my God, I don't
know that word.
[ Laughter ]
>> DM: A solo conversation.
>> Lilou: But there is
so much and it's so--
it's so, so beautiful,
and there is--
of course there is a lot of
things that we could talk about
and knowing exactly what our
purpose is and all of that,
but it comes always back to
them, to just beingness anyway,
whether we know it or not.
>> DM: Yeah, and of course
because we are spiritual
beings, I think we get this.
If you watch these conversation
and you probably get that,
but here's the thing, you
know, this being that we are,
this part of the
universe, this energy,
this spirit chose to be here.
So, when we have this amazing
god-like quality of being part
of the source, being part of
God, and part of the energy,
what is it about us that
often blocks ourselves
to the prosperity available
in this physical world
'cause we chose to be--
no, I existed before I was born.
And I'll be existing after
I've shuffled off this mortal.
>> Lilou: You're eternal.
>> DM: Absolutely,
'cause we're all eternal.
We're all eternal.
So, we chose to be here, so
we didn't choose to be here
in a way where we would
just experience a great
spiritual journey.
We are allowed 'cause we
chose to be here and we want
to our spirit to experience
the physical and the prosperity
and the joy and the care and
the adventures and the thrills,
one thing I love about Lilou is
that no matter how many times
I see you interviewing people,
you're still energetic.
You're still excited.
You're still enjoying the
journey and you love what you do
and that's the experience
of life.
>> Lilou: What's interesting is
that it's exactly what you're
describing is that I am relaxing
into somebody else's world.
So and then the magic happens.
>> DM: Oh, yeah, yeah, 'cause
you hold a great space in people
and therefore, it opens up.
And for me, it's around--
you know, sometimes it's
around accepting of self,
not from an ego point of view,
but accepting yourself saying,
who am I, who am I really.
I guess it's OK for me to be
'cause it's not about the money,
you mentioned money
really early on.
But it's more about the gift
that we have is oneness,
this genius that we all have.
Let that flow into
all of our lives.
Don't let it stop nine to
five and this wonderful person
so which-- it's almost
have to say, you know,
almost have this story that I
tell about the person that wakes
up in the morning and
they're very spiritual,
they're very holy, and
they're very blessed,
and they go through
meditation, and are there
for an hour, and then meditate.
And then they leave
the meditation
and hold this wonderful
space they create some energy
around them, and they go to the
place they know that they exist.
And then they go-- they'll
do some yoga in the morning
and the breathing is right and
they finish with some moments,
and it's wonderful and
meeting medication at the end.
And then they get dressed
and they put that clothes
on the night, put the alarm
on and then close the door,
and they leave there and
is jumping to the car
and I begin to fight the world.
They have challenges
that they're beeping their
home with other people.
They're going to their business
and that oneness that they found
in the meditation place is
not in the business meeting.
It's not in the room where
the meeting in your class,
in your potential
class, it's not there.
The space which is the core, the
truth, the being of each of us
that they found
in the meditation should
[inaudible] we carry
through all of our day.
It's great to have that
place when you're on your own
in your room doing a meditation.
Then it's where we need to be at
this place when we are working
with other people, when
we walk down the road
and we see someone, and
we make an eye contact,
and we're in our office,
whether talking to the cleaner,
or whether talking to a
millionaire, or whether talking
to a person who's serving us in
a shop, or whether we're trying
to get a new bit of business
to a client, is that holding
that space that says,
this is my call.
This is my truth.
No matter what the world tries
to do to me, my objective just
for today is to hold that
space, and that's how I get
to serve the world the best.
Holding that space and by the
way, the great thing about it is
with the philosophy
that says don't try
and hold this space forever.
Don't try and do
this for a week.
Do not try and hold this space
and hold your truth
the rest of your life.
Just hold it for today.
>> Lilou: For now, yeah.
>> DM: Just for now, until
you get your head back
on your pillow tonight.
That's the time to hold it,
'cause tomorrow you can be
blessed with another day.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
There is also some nos
that I guess that you have
to say though because there
are so many opportunities,
how do you deal with that?
How do you deal with going
that way versus this way
and saying yes to
these clients and not
to these clients 'cause
I found out to for me
with the interviews that there's
more nos than yeses and I have
to see a lot of nos even
though if there is no yeses.
It's--
>> DM: A lot of times we find,
you know what, then that's why,
you know, your truth
has led you here.
Your trust in yourself has
led you here because the life
that you've created and
the light that you shared
and the opportunity you give
to others to share lights
to help others and
to guide one another
and to help one another is
because you trust yourself.
Because you have a knowingness
inside, and we all have this.
It's really a question of
now you can have light inside
of you while you're choosing
to trust the light
and to be led by it.
And if you're led by your
light, yeah, you can say, well,
my light is now saying
to me, go right.
I have no idea what
I'm saying to--
well, it's saying to go right,
but that's where
we're going to do.
Is this person going
to be a client or not
and you check inside and
double-check with your truth,
almost out checking back and
doing a mini-meditation maybe
for around 10 seconds, just
take that time, not a long time,
but you can change your
life by holding yourself
in this 10 second moments,
giving yourself time to go in.
See what that means
to me, not hear.
See what it means for me,
see what it means for you
as you travel your journey.
And in those 10 seconds, follow
the instincts, the guidance,
the intuition, the message,
the wisdom, the sagacity
that comes from that place.
Take action from that place.
We all know the people who
have wonderful journeys
on the inside, but when we know
that you know that you know
who you are is when you
act that inside, outside.
So, when we have
wisdom from within us,
it's true wisdom
and we act upon it.
When we do the thing that comes
for us, we ask the question
that comes and we speak
the words that come.
When we go to the left
instead of right, when we call
or we don't call, we
do or we don't do,
it's because we're following
the wisdom from inside
and that's how it caused
a revolution in our lives.
That's how we change our lives.
That's how we can
change the world 'cause
that wisdom is from the truth.
It's from the source.
So when we allow it through
us, not just be inside of us
and to hold that space, but to
actually have it be inside of us
and hold that space yet
act and do something,
physically act and do something.
Without that, I will continue
to meet so many different people
who are-- who do all
the work on the inside.
When it comes to
doing what you do,
which is I don't even
know why logically,
but it's not this person
or yeah, it is this person
and it's this day, I'm going
to tune in and trust myself,
follow my instinct, my
intuition, follow my truth.
That's what we need to be or
begin to do and it helps us all
that I think it's really
fair because the experience
that I went through that
when I made my shift
and when I woke up, I changed
straight away 'cause my life was
so bad.
>> Lilou: That was
radical, yeah.
>> DM: Radical.
Yeah, I was not diagnosed
but almost depressed, broke,
working six days a week and all
the rest not seeing my wife,
not seeing my children,
all these things were
going-- were wrong.
In fact, I was a failure
on every single level
that mattered to me.
And, you know, so someone
said a strange thing to say,
but all that was a grace for me.
It was a blessing because when
I had the first 10-second moment
that woke me up, I was willing
to change everything
straight away.
I was like, yeah, whatever comes
up, 'cause the first moment,
my truth began to speak and my
true self revealed wisdom to me.
And the more that--
from that first moment
from that first evening as it
began to reveal itself to me
and from that day to all
this, whatever comes up,
I follow through on it.
So, I have a bit of a blessing
here because all my troubles
of 18 years of pain
and struggling were actually a
blessing because it made me say,
"OK, whatever comes up,
I'm going to follow.
I know what life is like
living the other way.
It doesn't work for me.
That causes pain and fractured
relationships and challenges
and so whatever comes
up, I trusted it."
But I respect the fact that
everyone is going to be
in the same place and that
everyone is just willing
to do that, and just to
trust but it's a blessing,
so anyone that's listing or
watching now that has problems,
challenges, real problems
that tearing the very life
out of you, there is a time when
we allow our self to go, "Well,
that will be your blessing,
that will be your saving grace.
Because it's that
that will allow you
to make the changes
others who are doing OK
in life are not prepared to do."
We've all know just that.
So, what I began to understand
now if we're going to work
and counsel with other
people, whereas first
as understood how they were not
trusting themselves, I would--
what they were really-- what
is it that we're not trusting.
Lilou whatever not
trusting it was their truth.
It was unnatural if he's part of
the truth, part of the source.
They were not trusting
the source coming
through them in their lives.
>> Lilou: Then how can
we follow our truth
when we don't love ourselves?
>> DM: Well, we have--
>> Lilou: Or respect.
>> DM: Yeah, it's not
[inaudible] say, well,
I don't believe in myself
and they say, well--
and often they're told, believe
in yourself come
on, but I don't.
So, how do you believe yourself
when you don't believe
in yourself?
So, it is about saying now who
are we really and bit by bit
to rebuild the relationship
with our truth,
bit by bit, brick by brick,
block by block, that we
can change our relationship
with ourselves.
We can awaken up our true
genius, and the source
and the energy and wisdom
will come through us
with any relationship.
We don't go from zero to
married within five seconds.
We say to ourselves, hold
on a second, and we begin
to build the relationship.
And eventually someone
says, "Will you marry me?"
And if it all works
right and it connects
on all the right levels, if
you are the person says yeah,
'cause that's also
right for me as well.
So, it is about saying our
truth, begin to trust our truth.
People would approach
me then go,
"So when you change your
life, Derek, can you kind
of move people out of your
life that were not serving you,
that were dishonoring you,
and they're abusing you
and your service,
and that must take
in courage 'cause you're
earning off those people.
That must have taken
a lot of courage.
And I get the question,
but my response was
actually quite instantaneous.
I began to say didn't
take any courage
at all 'cause my truth is
more important than courage.
My truth is stronger
than my courage.
>> Lilou: Your truth is stronger
than money, than whatever--
>> DM: Than all these
things, you know,
so you don't need courage.
You just need your truth
and as I stuck with this
and there was a time of
course when I make my shifts,
and there's a game by--
absolutely opened here and
saying, on our first shift
and then I move clients
and people out of my life,
my life took a few
backward steps first.
But I just stick with it
and I didn't use any
willpower to stick with it.
People were saying, it
must have been really hard
when you let go worst
clients or abusing you
and getting you drive everywhere
and do things for them.
You let go over those clients.
It must be hard 'cause
you're already
in a bad financial position.
And I would say actually, did--
you know, it must have taken--
the thing I tend to say was
it must have taken a lot
of willpower.
That's the [inaudible]
come to me.
I would say, no.
It didn't take any willpower,
just took my truth
'cause my truth
and your truth is more
powerful than any willpower.
You don't need to fight and
to push and to try and to go
on and-- you just
need to be your truth.
And people that don't know
me now that some should know
that my background is around
financials, many investing,
helping keep people to plan
their estates and to save
and invest money and to make
money forward and look after it
and to become good custodians.
I did that for 18 years
the traditional way
and I was completely
an object failure.
When I shift and began to talk
about what my truth really was,
and I've made to reveal this.
And to somewhat this
is really all about.
That's when things took off
in a way which was, well,
I got to speak around the
world and to write a book
and that sort of the things
and mentor and teach and guide.
So, it's nothing to
do with the money.
It was about saying, what is our
truth and are we willing to be--
truth are we willing to listen
to ourselves and to reopen
and reengage the relationship
with self, to reengage the light
within ourselves, to
reconnect with that place.
And the practical
thing that I talked
about in the book are we stopped
setting goals, I could come back
to this practical thing,
stop setting goals.
If one had a way, if one
learn how to be disconnected
from your truth and to
be tricked by the world,
you start setting goals.
So-- 'cause your goals for
example for most people are
around that even
[inaudible] that go, well,
I have one of those to be
successful, I have, you know,
that car, that house, that
income, and must be that weight,
must have that person
in my life,
and then set all these goals.
But--
>> Lilou: It's never enough.
It's never enough.
>> DM: Yeah, but also what's
the measurement of that?
The measurement of that
is well, according to who,
according to your
truth or according
to what you're seeing
in the world.
Isn't that-- where does that
come from and for most people,
whether they admit it or not,
for those who set the base
upon the norms of their entry,
the norms of their business,
the norms of their country,
their community 'cause
you're going to have that car
and that house was [inaudible],
well, you have this car
and this house, well,
'cause you see
if I have them, I'll
be successful.
According to who?
By who's measure?
Well, that's what
successful people have.
What's your truth?
What's truth for you?
Because you can be successful
driving an old VW, yeah,
with a small amount of money
in your bank just enough
to get yourself through
because you find your happiness
and you find your wisdom, and
it's in the finding the wisdom
and your truth, you'll
be led to prosperity,
you'll be led to
wealth as I was.
I didn't--
>> Lilou: As your vision is
of wealth, as abundance is
for you to your standard.
>> DM: And this is the key
things, it's about being--
it goes back to truth, isn't it?
Because when we talk about
setting standards, you know,
standard being a
basis, a criteria,
a level, a quality or a rule.
You don't just put
those out to the air.
We don't make the same
mistakes we've been making
for the last hundred years in
this world in goal setting.
With standards, we go
inside to find them.
We check them and
then we say, OK.
What's right for me in this area
of my life, the person health
and fitness environment,
relationship, friends, emotions,
career, time, whatever.
We then say, what's
right inside me for this.
What's the right standard for
me 'cause you're not checking
with your truth, and
your truth now begins
to give you the right standard
for you to practically do
in your job, to practically
do in your life,
and to practically do in your
relationship and, you know,
you know who should not be
in your life and who should,
and you find a way breaking
that connection 'cause
that practically you
would need to do.
And if you're with
clients or with friends
or with your health, now,
what are your daily
standards for your health?
Well, your truth knows the
best standard for your health.
So, when you're in
non-self, you just eat
and drink whatever you want to
do and don't move very much.
When you got in to like your
truth, you know, you know what,
I do know my truth, I
do know what's right
to keep this vessel going 'cause
this vessel carries the spirit
on this physical plane.
And to the degree that I
let this vessel diminish
or degenerate, I get--
I lose the opportunity to
carry my spirit on this world.
And that's where we find,
so we have to set standards
around our truth knows,
our truth is the thing
inside the vessel.
So, clearly our truth the ones
that carry the vessel, we--
our truth will know that-- what
we should not eat, the fats
and the salts and the
sugar, it knows that.
It doesn't take great
intelligence on that
but actually there was no--
there is no written down content
that [inaudible] the world in
milliseconds, 3, 4, 5,000 years.
But the original people
that inhabited the lands,
they knew what was
right for them.
They knew what they should eat.
And they didn't have the
[inaudible] and elements
that we suffer today in the
much wiser 21st century.
They didn't have-- but
we've created this thing--
these things for ourselves.
So what's coming through for
me is actually your truth,
my truth, all of our truth,
knows what it should be
and it will begin
to set standards
for you when we go inside.
And as with all these journeys,
going inside is not enough.
It's actually-- it's about
being real and being frank.
When we go inside and
discover our wisdom
and the right standards for the
areas of our lives, we then have
to set them down, write
them down and then we have
to commit just for today, just
for today to commit to living
at the standards discovered
from itself, just for today.
Do not ever do [inaudible]
of your week, your month,
your year, your life, just-- and
that's way there's no pressure.
Because you know, I'm going to
just quote the Bible once more
and the Bible says, you know,
this Lord's prayer
that's Christians--
was Christians I was taught.
And then when we do
the Lord's prayer,
it gives us these four words and
the four words kept coming back
to me again and again and
again, "Give us this day.
Give us this day."
He didn't say, give
us this week--
>> Lilou: Right.
>> DM: -- or give us this
month, give us this year,
give us this fiscal year,
give us this quarter.
I think if Jesus, son
of God or a prophet,
had meant give us this
week or give us this month,
he would have said so.
He didn't misspeak.
It wasn't a slip of the tongue.
He meant give us this day
'cause this is about the day,
about being who we are today,
getting our light and energy
into the world, today,
loving today, caring today,
sharing today, learning
today, do what we can today,
bring our light today.
And as we are our light, we
don't just light the path
for others, we have
more light for ourselves
and this is the beauty
of being our own light.
[Background Music] In other
words, our own wisdom guides
as not just others and
this is what it's about.
>> Lilou: Beautiful Derek.
[ Music ]
[ Silence ]